As we begin to discuss user constituencies,
let's go back to the basic concept of segmentation.
We've learned that segmentation provides focus.
It surfaces important data points and it amplifies trends.
Let's consider all of these points more closely in the context of user constituencies.
Let's use Airbnb as an example.
We don't actually have access to Airbnb's Google Analytics data,
but we're using the site because it attracts
two clearly defined constituencies: potential guests and potential hosts.
Let's say that the two main goals on Airbnb are to list a room and to book a room.
Would it make sense for us as analysts to measure the performance
of listing a room for visitors who are there to book a room? Of course not.
This is where segmentation for user constituencies comes in.
We want to analyze the right goals within meaningful segments.
A segment that report for
the list room goal could look something like this in Google Analytics.
We see that there are the same number of goal completions for
the potential host segment and the all sessions segment.
But when we look at the conversion rate,
we see that the conversion rate is much higher for potential host than for all sessions.
That's because we've narrowed our focus.
We have a smaller number of users in
the potential hosts segment than we do for all sessions,
so the conversion rate is actually much more meaningful.
Similarly, if we chart goal conversion rate over time,
there's much more amplitude within the potential host segment than for
all sessions because again we're dealing with a smaller number of users,
so any changes will be more pronounced.
Did the commission structure change that occurred in the middle of
January have a great impact on the list room goal?
If we're looking at the orange line for all sessions,
we only see a little bump,
but when we narrow our focus to the potential hosts segment,
we see that there was a sharp increase.
How do we define these segments to map to our user constituencies?
Often users' own behavior will be enough for us to create a segment.
In other cases, we may be able to use a custom dimension that we've captured,
such as loyalty or a login status.
Sometimes you may have a special segment of your traffic coming from a specific referral.
You can consider that to be one of your user constituencies.
In the case of Airbnb, what could we do?
Well, anyone interested in becoming a host
would click become host and probably host a home.
Now, we have the information that we need to define the segment
because the user has sent a page with a path containing host homes.
This will characterize the session.
Let's see how we would define the segment.
On the new segment screen,
we could click conditions, page, contains, host/homes.
Again, this page you as characterizing the entire session and it's pulling in
every interaction that also happened in the session, including goal conversions.
In fact, if we wanted to,
we could change the scope from sessions to users such
that any user whoever view the host homes page would be included in this segment.
We can name the segment potential hosts and that's it.
The segment won't necessarily be 100 percent accurate because there could
be potential guests who end up on the host homes page.
But is this segment still valid and will it help our analysis?
Absolutely. We want to work with the blue line and not the orange line.
That's the power of segmentation.
So, think about who your user constituencies are.
They're not always clear immediately,
and there may be some of us who have experiences
that are designed for just one general audience,
but many of us do have different user constituencies.
As a high priority,
identify those constituencies and identify the piece of
data in Google Analytics that will allow you to define the constituencies.
If you don't have that piece of data in GA,
such as accustomed dimension value,
make sure that you include that in your implementation plan.
Once you do have these segments defined,
do most of your analysis with those segments applied.
Most of the insights that we're looking for are a lot more
likely to come from segmentation than from aggregation.